# Python Options Screener

This is a Python code that retrieves options data from tickers given to it, and sorts the data based on given price ranges, expiration dates, and max premiums. Uses: Alpha Vantage API

When run, the code will prompt you to enter a list of tickers. Enter up to 30 tickers, separated by spaces(MSFT AAPL TSLA). The code will then ask you to input a price range; this input determines what the max percentage from the stock price that you want to filter strike prices by. For example, inputting '0.2' on a ticker with a stock price of $100 will filter strike prices 20% above and 20% below the stock price, so contracts with strike prices in between $80 and $120 would be returned. The code will then prompt you to enter an expiration date; the format for this input is 'YYYY-MM-DD'. Keep in mind that expiration dates for large stocks are usually every Friday, but smaller companies may only offer monthly options contracts. Inputting 'None' when prompted for expiration date will return results matching the other criteria from any expiration date. Lastly, you will be asked to input a max premium, which will return only options contracts priced underneath the given number. 

The code will then scan each ticker for options data, and will return 'Matches found for (ticker)!' if any contracts from that ticker match the given criteria. If none of the contracts from a ticker match the given criteria, the code will return 'No matches for (ticker)'. If no options data can be found, the code will return 'No options data for (ticker)'. 

After scanning all the tickers, the code will then prompt you to 'Enter the ticker:'. Here, pick which ticker you want to view the filtered results from. Then, the code will prompt you to 'Enter the type of option:'. There are 5 choices to input here: 'calls', 'puts', 'both', 'call spreads', and 'put spreads'. To get call options that match your criteria, enter 'calls', to get put options that match your criteria, enter 'puts', and if you want both types of options, enter 'both'. If you want to view call or put spreads, the code will ask you what spread distance you want for the displayed spreads. Keep in mind that the spread distance you input will not be the exact distance between the strike prices of the two legs in the spread, but in whatever increments the actual options contracts are spaced by. For example, if call options are listed in increments of $5($30, $35, $40, $45, $50 etc.), and you input a spread distance of 2, the code will return call spreads with strike price distances of $10($30/$40, $35/$45, $40/$50, etc.). If no results from calls, puts, call spreads, or put spreads are available, the code will just return 'No (type of option)data for (ticker)'.

After printing your request, the code will ask you if you want to print more options data. If you do, input 'yes', and the code will loop back to asking you which ticker to print. If not, input 'no', and the code will end. If you accidentally press yes, or want to leave the program when prompted which ticker to view, input 'exit' and the code will end.

Thank you for using my Python Options Screener!
